JAKE ARCHIBALD: Do we
do an interview now?
Is this how we--
MARTIN SPLITT: [LAUGHS]
SURMA: But we didn't--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Look, all I
wanted to hear was please.
[LAUGHTER]
Action!
SURMA: I know--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So impolite.
Oh my god.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Who are you, and why?
MARTIN SPLITT: Why, I
still haven't figured out,
but I'm Martin Splitt,
and I have recently
joined the ranks of DevRel
for Search and web ecosystem
at Google.
SURMA: Ooh.
MARTIN SPLITT: Mm.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So what are
you here to do at Google then?
MARTIN SPLITT: Google Search
wants to basically get out
of your way.
That's the idea.
Like, you just do the
right thing for your users,
and we do the heavy
lifting on the back end
to make that happen.
SURMA: So is this
basically where, you know,
for the longest time
certain techniques
were a no-go for developers
because it would lower
your chance of getting
to the position in Search
where you wanted to end up?
MARTIN SPLITT: Well,
that's still a thing.
You can still try
to game the system,
and the game is going
to punish you for it.
Like, we are pretty good
at catching these things.
But nonetheless,
there are a few things
where we can improve
the way that we
help you get stuff on Search
and get like the relevant users
to your page.
And there's a bunch
of best practices,
and there's going to be talks
on I/O here from my coworkers
Maria and John--
John Miller and Maria Moeva.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right.
MARTIN SPLITT: And
they're going to tell
you more about how to make
JavaScript and Search better
friends.
And in the background,
I'm basically
figuring out where JavaScript
and Search are not friends.
SURMA: I guess we'll
link to those, maybe?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, we will.
SURMA: [INAUDIBLE]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So is
this about making things
like single page apps?
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah.
[INAUDIBLE]
SURMA: And [INAUDIBLE]
biggest changes recently
where now the crawler basically
is able to execute JavaScript,
so single page apps suddenly
became a proper first class
citizen in search results.
MARTIN SPLITT: But
then certain people
figured out, like,
wait a minute.
You say it executes JavaScript,
but what does that mean?
If my page takes 10 seconds
in executing JavaScript,
is that fine?
Or what if I do this--
SURMA: It's not.
MARTIN SPLITT: --interesting.
It's never.
That's never fine.
That's never going to be.
But there's a few things, and
we are running a certain Chrome
version.
We have recently
published-- well, recently,
I think like last
year we published
which Chrome version that is.
We are a little--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: 40-something.
MARTIN SPLITT: So yeah,
we're a little behind there.
[LAUGHTER]
And we're working
on catching up.
And for the time being, we
have to put out some guidelines
for people to fix the issues.
And we're also getting into
how the frameworks are doing
certain things,
and if we can help
them do certain things better
or if they're doing things fine
already, so that
people get a better--
That's a pretty different
angle, because before, you
were doing like VR, AR things.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah.
SURMA: So that's like the
other end of the spectrum.
MARTIN SPLITT:
That's pretty much
the other end of the spectrum.
It's nonetheless super
exciting, because obviously you
want people to find your stuff.
And it's cool if you
build VR things--
SURMA: Who would've thought?
MARTIN SPLITT: Right, I know.
And in the future,
hopefully not too far out,
we might actually
also have a look
at how we get like 3D content
into Search so that you can--
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Oh, no, because I
hate looking for things
around the store.
Is that what it's
going to be like?
Like, searching
on the internet is
going to be like walking
in there and it's like--
MARTIN SPLITT: No, no, no, no.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You have
to walk up to somebody
and go, excuse me.
SURMA: Here's aisle page
one, aisle page two.
MARTIN SPLITT: That's
not what I mean.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I'm just
looking for some socks.
MARTIN SPLITT: No.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Where is
this sock aisle in Google?
MARTIN SPLITT: But today,
if you search for a product,
you might already
see like a price tag
and where you can buy it
and the little picture.
But if the picture is
not really helpful,
then it would be nice to just
be able to spin it around, no?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: That is true.
That is true.
SURMA: Boom.
MARTIN SPLITT: I'm not saying
that's going to happen.
I'm just saying that's
something that I, personally,
would love to see.
SURMA: You can already be
quoted out of context now.
MARTIN SPLITT: Amazing.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We can do that
with CSS 3D already, right?
You can just spin it around.
It's the same thing on the
other side, just reversed.
Right.
That would work for socks.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah.
For socks that would be fine.
SURMA: [INAUDIBLE] not
help, but you know.
MARTIN SPLITT: Or CDs,
like, a picture of the CD
is probably-- ah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You're
going to have to explain
that for the younger viewers.
MARTIN SPLITT: Oh right.
Yeah.
We used to store music so that
we can listen to it on the go
eventually, and it was like--
SURMA: Very compact.
MARTIN SPLITT: --little disks.
Yeah.
SURMA: Ironically
called a compact disk.
MARTIN SPLITT: Very compact.
The size, apparently,
is chosen so
that some like Beethoven
something something
symphony fits on it
right away, like Philips
designed it that way.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Is that right?
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah, yeah.
SURMA: Oh, is that
why it's-- what is it,
64 minutes originally?
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's the reason why.
SURMA: So it's one-- this
CD can hold one Beethoven.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] Like, 64.7 something.
Like, it's ridiculous.
But that's where it comes--
SURMA: So are you saying they
could have made it better
and just didn't because
it fits a Beethoven.
It's good enough.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah, yeah.
It's kind of like, that's fine.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
So if people are--
MARTIN SPLITT: It's
a good trade-off.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: If
people are wanting
to do better at search on
the web, what's step one?
Is it to tweet you
and ask nicely,
and you can go and press
the buttons and the thing
goes to the top?
MARTIN SPLITT: No, none of us
can do that, and none of us
will do that.
We also don't offer any
preferential supports.
So even if you're
a partner, you're
not getting anything that
other people are not getting.
So the best thing is
build it for your users.
Use the tools that we
are putting out there
like Lighthouse,
PageSpeed Insights.
There's the mobile-first
testing tool, which
gives you a bunch of insights.
Search Console is
a thing that you
can verify for your own page.
And then you get a
lot of insights on how
you're doing in Search as well.
And you can see how
Google is rendering it.
SURMA: We give feedback on that?
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
this is kind of a way
to see how the Google crawler
sees your sight, right?
MARTIN SPLITT: Yes, yes.
It's called Fetch as Google.
It's probably going to be
called something else soonish,
because we're working on a new
version of the Search Console.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We
like to rename things--
SURMA: #branding.
MARTIN SPLITT: #branding, yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, make
it difficult for people
to find, perfect.
Excellent.
OK.
MARTIN SPLITT: Especially
in the Search Console
things like finding things
that are important, right?
No but the mobile-first
testing tool,
that gives you also a view
of how Google sees your page
and shows you JavaScript
errors and stuff.
It's pretty cool actually.
SURMA: That seems helpful.
MARTIN SPLITT:
Yeah, that's useful.
Because forehanded--
SURMA: You said, the version
is a little bit further back,
so certain APIs might throw
or don't throw unstable.
MARTIN SPLITT: Correct.
And you basically,
beforehand, all
you had is you go Fetch as
Google, and it goes by page.
Sorry.
SURMA: Great.
MARTIN SPLITT: And
then deal with it.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
what kind of cases--
where is that going to happen?
Is this like a case of
JavaScript errors or--
MARTIN SPLITT: Yes, in
case of Javascript errors,
if you use features--
if your site breaks, if you use
certain features that are not
supported by the slightly
older version of Chrome
that runs the Google--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Tiny little--
MARTIN SPLITT: Tiny little
bit of deviation from there.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
relatively not that old,
relative to the
age of the planet.
MARTIN SPLITT: I
mean, the internet
is 25 years old or something.
So it's like-- it's a glimpse.
Nothing but a glimpse.
So if you've got that
kind of JavaScript,
heavily Javascript-based
page, you're seeing errors.
They're seeing just
like nothing coming up
in the Search Console.
What's your next steps?
How are you going
to improve that?
SURMA: I mean, you would have
the errors on the console.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah,
if there are errors,
then you'll find them.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: It's like now you
have actual features--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But what
if it's like, you know,
core feature not
supported, go away.
MARTIN SPLITT: Right.
Then--
SURMA: Just [INAUDIBLE] it.
[INAUDIBLE] everything.
MARTIN SPLITT: So John talks
about that in his session.
There's like
server-side rendering,
and there's something
that John likes
to call dynamic rendering,
where you render certain bits
and pieces and serve it
when you see the Googlebot.
I know UA sniffing
is not a cool thing.
But--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh.
That sounds like gaming
the search or something.
You said that was bad.
I'm going to have to
pull you up on that.
MARTIN SPLITT: Here's the thing.
You should not do it
to like trick users,
because we're going
to catch that.
But if you serve
us an exact copy
of your content for the
Googlebot, then you'll be fine.
You're not going to
be penalized for it.
SURMA: But if it's an exact
copy, then what's the point?
MARTIN SPLITT: The point
being that you can layer
on additional functionality.
Like if you give us a
static HTML version--
SURMA: I see, so with
[INAUDIBLE] rendering,
basically.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yes, exactly.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: On the Google version,
you don't inject with Java
and do magic stuff.
MARTIN SPLITT: If you use--
SURMA: Got it.
MARTIN SPLITT: If you
use, I don't know,
2019 JS, which is probably
going to be coming out very soon
and--
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Probably next year.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yeah,
right, I would guess.
Or io18.js, which is
probably announced right now.
[LAUGHTER]
Then you might run into
problems with Search.
And then you can
go like, OK, but I
can have a server-side process,
render out to some HTML
so that we gets the
content of your document
and the relations between
the different documents
that your application
consists of.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But that's good
for performance in general,
right?
That's good for like
real users as well.
MARTIN SPLITT: Yes.
Which is why we
are fine with that.
Because, again, we
don't try to build--
SURMA: It's a win-win.
MARTIN SPLITT: --specifically.
Yeah.
We don't try to make you
something specific for search.
What we want is to make your
website better for your users
and make it relevant
and make it high quality
and make good content.
And then it's our
task to get you found.
SURMA: Are we going to
do interviews, mate?
We never have done
interviews on 203.
We're suddenly starting
to do interviews now.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
well, it's going
to be awkward if
we don't interview
the person that is set.
SURMA: [INAUDIBLE]
MARTIN SPLITT: No, it's fine.
You know, I have
got a phone with me.
It's over there.
SURMA: You can just
browse the Instagrams.
We just, you know, chat
about the usual stuff.
MARTIN SPLITT: I'll make
this more interesting,
like up the bet here.
I'm going to use your
phone to [INAUDIBLE]..
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: I don't recommend.
I don't recommend.